COMDOX-1734: Updated SCP topics for clarity (#941)
commerce-docs/microsite-commerce-storefront: src/content/docs/setup/configuration/storefront-compatibility/install.mdx

---
title: Manual installation
description: Install the Storefront Compatibility Package with Composer on Commerce on Cloud or on-premises with Adobe Commerce Optimizer.
sidebar:
  label: Manual installation
  order: 2
---
import Link from '@components/Link.astro';

import { Tabs, TabItem, Steps } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

> This page is for Commerce on Cloud or on-premises with Adobe Commerce Optimizer. Install the B2C Storefront Compatibility Package with Composer on your Commerce server. If you use [B2B drop-ins](/dropins-b2b/), also install the Storefront Compatibility B2B Package (SCP-B2B) on the same instance after the B2C package and after Adobe Commerce B2B is on the instance. Not sure this is your path? See [Find your path](/setup/configuration/storefront-compatibility/#find-your-path).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page is for Commerce on Cloud or on-premises with Adobe Commerce Optimizer. Install the B2C Storefront Compatibility Package with Composer on your Commerce server. If you use [B2B drop-ins](/dropins-b2b/), also install the Storefront Compatibility B2B Package (SCP-B2B) on the same instance after the B2C package. Not sure this is your path? See [Find your path](/setup/configuration/storefront-compatibility/#find-your-path).
```

## Choose your B2C package

The package version must match your Adobe Commerce release. Use the version from this table in `composer require adobe-commerce/storefront-compatibility:VERSION`.

| Adobe Commerce | Package version | Reference |
|---|---|---|

> | 2.4.9 (recommended) | `4.9.0` | [GraphQL and REST changes](/setup/configuration/storefront-compatibility/v249/) |

Reviewer 2: Please sync your changes with the July release for both SCP and the changelog-related pages to avoid large merge conflicts.

| 2.4.8 | `4.8.25` | [GraphQL changes](/reference/storefront-compatibility/v248/) |

## Install the B2C package

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Commerce on Cloud">

<Steps>

1. Change to your Commerce project directory.

1. Check out the environment branch you want to update.

   ```bash
   magento-cloud environment:checkout <environment-id>
   ```

1. Add the package using the version from [Choose your B2C package](#choose-your-b2c-package).

   ```bash
   composer require adobe-commerce/storefront-compatibility:4.9.0
   ```

>    Use `4.8.25` for Adobe Commerce 2.4.8.

Reviewer 2: To access the latest SCP packages, the customer's Composer key must have the Adobe Commerce Optimizer (ACO) availability group assigned. Otherwise, they will only be able to access the older packages published under the external scope.

Alternatively, we can add a note indicating that the supported configuration is Adobe Commerce 2.4.8 with Adobe Commerce Optimizer.

1. Update package dependencies.

   ```bash
   composer update adobe-commerce/storefront-compatibility
   ```

1. Commit and push so the cloud environment picks up `composer.json` and `composer.lock`.

   ```bash
   git add -A
   git commit -m "Add module"
   git push origin <branch-name>
   ```

   When the push finishes, check the <Link href={"https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/commerce-cloud-service/user-guide/develop/test/log-locations#deploy-log"} text={"Deploy log"} /> in the Cloud console to confirm the deployment succeeded.

</Steps>

  </TabItem>
  
  <TabItem label="On premises">

<Steps>

1. Add the package using the version from [Choose your B2C package](#choose-your-b2c-package).

   ```bash
   composer require adobe-commerce/storefront-compatibility:4.9.0
   ```

   Use `4.8.25` for Adobe Commerce 2.4.8.

1. Apply the module to your Commerce instance.

   ```bash

>    bin/magento setup:upgrade

Reviewer: I think you should run bin/magento cache:clean here as well

   ```

</Steps>

  </TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Choose your B2B package

[B2B drop-ins](/dropins-b2b/) need SCP-B2B in addition to the B2C package. Adobe Commerce B2B must already be on your Commerce instance. SCP-B2B supports Adobe Commerce 2.4.8 and 2.4.9 only; it does not support Adobe Commerce 2.4.7.

Use the version from this table in `composer require adobe-commerce/storefront-compatibility-b2b:VERSION`. For GraphQL changes in the package, see [B2B Compatibility Package](/setup/configuration/storefront-compatibility/b2b/).

| Adobe Commerce | Package version |
|---|---|

> | 2.4.9 (recommended) | `1.0.22` |

Reviewer 2: To access the SCP-B2B packages, the customer's Composer key must have the Adobe Commerce Optimizer (ACO) availability group assigned.

Reviewer 2: Or Customer should have ACCS or ACO license.

| 2.4.8 | `1.0.22` |

## Install the B2B package

Install SCP-B2B only after the B2C Storefront Compatibility Package is on the instance.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Commerce on Cloud">

<Steps>

1. Change to your Commerce project directory and check out the environment branch you want to update, if you have not already done so for the B2C package.

1. Add SCP-B2B using the version from [Choose your B2B package](#choose-your-b2b-package).

   ```bash
   composer require adobe-commerce/storefront-compatibility-b2b:1.0.22
   ```

1. Update package dependencies.

   ```bash
   composer update adobe-commerce/storefront-compatibility-b2b
   ```

1. Commit and push so the cloud environment picks up `composer.json` and `composer.lock`.

   ```bash
   git add -A
   git commit -m "Add B2B compatibility package"
   git push origin <branch-name>
   ```

</Steps>

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem label="On premises">

<Steps>

1. Add SCP-B2B using the version from [Choose your B2B package](#choose-your-b2b-package).

   ```bash
   composer require adobe-commerce/storefront-compatibility-b2b:1.0.22
   ```

1. Apply the module to your Commerce instance.

   ```bash
   bin/magento setup:upgrade
   ```

> </Steps>

Reviewer: bin/magento cache:clean

## Choose your B2C package

The package version must match your Adobe Commerce release. Use the version from this table in `composer require adobe-commerce/storefront-compatibility:VERSION`.

| Adobe Commerce | Package version | Reference |
|---|---|---|
| 2.4.9 (recommended) | `4.9.0` | [GraphQL and REST changes](/setup/configuration/storefront-compatibility/v249/) |
| 2.4.8 | `4.8.25` | [GraphQL changes](/reference/storefront-compatibility/v248/) |

## Install the B2C package

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Commerce on Cloud (PaaS)">

<Steps>

1. Change to your Commerce project directory.

1. Check out the environment branch you want to update.

   ```bash
   magento-cloud environment:checkout <environment-id>
   ```

>    Replace `<environment-id>` with your environment ID from the Cloud console or CLI.

Reviewer: Do you really need this line?

1. Add the package using the version from [Choose your B2C package](#choose-your-b2c-package).

   ```bash
   composer require adobe-commerce/storefront-compatibility:4.9.0
   ```

   Use `4.8.25` for Adobe Commerce 2.4.8.

1. Update package dependencies.

   ```bash

>    composer update "adobe-commerce/storefront-compatibility"

Reviewer: I think this is the only instance where you're enclosing the package name in quotes. Remove them.

   ```

1. Commit and push so the cloud environment picks up `composer.json` and `composer.lock`.

   ```bash
   git add -A
   git commit -m "Add module"
   git push origin <branch-name>
   ```

>    Replace `<branch-name>` with the branch that deploys to your target environment. When the push finishes, check the <Link href={"https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/commerce-cloud-service/user-guide/develop/test/log-locations#deploy-log"} text={"Deploy log"} /> in the Cloud console to confirm the deployment succeeded.

Reviewer: Did you get feedback indicating people don't understand command line example variables?

</Steps>

  </TabItem>
  
  <TabItem label="On premises">

<Steps>

1. Add the package using the version from [Choose your B2C package](#choose-your-b2c-package).

   ```bash
   composer require adobe-commerce/storefront-compatibility:4.9.0
   ```

   Use `4.8.25` for Adobe Commerce 2.4.8.

1. Apply the module to your Commerce instance.

   ```bash
   bin/magento setup:upgrade
   ```

</Steps>

  </TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Choose your B2B package

[B2B drop-ins](/dropins-b2b/) need SCP-B2B in addition to the B2C package. Adobe Commerce B2B must already be on your Commerce instance. SCP-B2B supports Adobe Commerce 2.4.8 and 2.4.9 only; it does not support Adobe Commerce 2.4.7.

Use the version from this table in `composer require adobe-commerce/storefront-compatibility-b2b:VERSION`. For GraphQL changes in the package, see [B2B Compatibility Package](/setup/configuration/storefront-compatibility/b2b/).

> | Adobe Commerce | Package version | Reference |

Reviewer: Eliminate this column. It's the same for both items.

|---|---|---|
| 2.4.9 (recommended) | `1.0.22` | [B2B Compatibility Package](/setup/configuration/storefront-compatibility/b2b/) |
| 2.4.8 | `1.0.22` | [B2B Compatibility Package](/setup/configuration/storefront-compatibility/b2b/) |

## Install the B2B package

Install SCP-B2B only after the B2C Storefront Compatibility Package is on the instance.

<Tabs>

>   <TabItem label="Commerce on Cloud (PaaS)">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <TabItem label="Commerce on Cloud">
```

<Steps>

1. Change to your Commerce project directory and check out the environment branch you want to update, if you have not already done so for the B2C package.

1. Add SCP-B2B using the version from [Choose your B2B package](#choose-your-b2b-package).

   ```bash
   composer require adobe-commerce/storefront-compatibility-b2b:1.0.22
   ```

1. Update package dependencies.

   ```bash
   composer update "adobe-commerce/storefront-compatibility-b2b"
   ```

1. Commit and push so the cloud environment picks up `composer.json` and `composer.lock`.

   ```bash
   git add -A
   git commit -m "Add B2B compatibility package"
   git push origin <branch-name>
   ```

>    Replace `<branch-name>` with the branch that deploys to your target environment.

Reviewer: Same comment

---
title: Manual installation
description: Install the Storefront Compatibility Package with Composer on Commerce on Cloud or on-premises with Adobe Commerce Optimizer.
sidebar:
  label: Manual installation
  order: 2
---
import Link from '@components/Link.astro';
import Aside from '@components/Aside.astro';

import { Tabs, TabItem, Steps } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

This page is for Commerce on Cloud or on-premises with Adobe Commerce Optimizer. Install the B2C Storefront Compatibility Package with Composer on your Commerce server. If you use [B2B drop-ins](/dropins-b2b/), also install the Storefront Compatibility B2B Package (SCP-B2B) on the same instance after the B2C package and after Adobe Commerce B2B is on the instance. Not sure this is your path? See [Find your path](/setup/configuration/storefront-compatibility/#find-your-path).

## Choose your B2C package

The package version must match your Adobe Commerce release. Use the version from this table in `composer require adobe-commerce/storefront-compatibility:VERSION`.

| Adobe Commerce | Package version | Reference |
|---|---|---|

> | 2.4.9 (recommended) | `4.9.0` | [GraphQL and REST changes](/setup/configuration/storefront-compatibility/v249/) |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| 2.4.9 (recommended) | `4.9.2` | [GraphQL and REST changes](/setup/configuration/storefront-compatibility/v249/) |
```

> | 2.4.8 | `4.8.7` | [GraphQL changes](/reference/storefront-compatibility/v248/) |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| 2.4.8 | `4.8.27` | [GraphQL changes](/reference/storefront-compatibility/v248/) |
```

sidebar:
  label: Manual installation
  order: 2
---
import Link from '@components/Link.astro';
import Aside from '@components/Aside.astro';

import { Tabs, TabItem, Steps } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

On Commerce on Cloud or on-premises with Adobe Commerce Optimizer, install the B2C Storefront Compatibility Package with Composer on your Commerce server. If you use [B2B drop-ins](/dropins-b2b/), also install the Storefront Compatibility B2B Package (SCP-B2B) on the same instance after the B2C package and after Adobe Commerce B2B is on the instance. Not sure this is your path? See [Find your path](/setup/configuration/storefront-compatibility/#find-your-path).

## Choose your B2C package

The package version must match your Adobe Commerce release. Use the version from this table in `composer require adobe-commerce/storefront-compatibility:VERSION`.

| Adobe Commerce | Package version | Reference |
|---|---|---|
| 2.4.9 (recommended) | `4.9.2` | [GraphQL and REST changes](/setup/configuration/storefront-compatibility/v249/) |
| 2.4.8 | `4.8.27` | [GraphQL and REST changes](/reference/storefront-compatibility/v248/) |

<Aside type="note" title="Composer key requirements">

> To access the latest Storefront Compatibility Package, you must have either an Adobe Commerce Optimizer license for Commerce on Cloud or on-premises, or an Adobe Commerce as a Cloud Service license. PaaS-only and Magento Open Source instances are not supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To access the latest Storefront Compatibility Package, you must have either an Adobe Commerce Optimizer license for Commerce on Cloud or on-premises, or an Adobe Commerce as a Cloud Service license. Adobe Commerce on Cloud or on-premises without Optimizer is not supported. Magento Open Source instances are not supported.
```

   composer require adobe-commerce/storefront-compatibility-b2b:1.0.22
   ```

1. Update package dependencies.

   ```bash
   composer update adobe-commerce/storefront-compatibility-b2b
   ```

1. Commit and push so the cloud environment picks up `composer.json` and `composer.lock`.

   ```bash
   git add composer.json composer.lock
   git commit -m "Add B2B compatibility package"
   git push origin <branch-name>
   ```

</Steps>

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem label="On-premises">

<Steps>

1. Add SCP-B2B using the version from [Choose your B2B package](#choose-your-b2b-package).

   ```bash
   composer require adobe-commerce/storefront-compatibility-b2b:1.0.22
   ```

1. Apply the module to your Commerce instance.

   ```bash
   bin/magento setup:upgrade
   ```

</Steps>

  </TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Update the packages

Use these steps after your initial Composer install to move to a newer patch version. Open the [changelog](/releases/changelog/) and filter for the **Storefront Compatibility Package** or **Storefront Compatibility B2B Package** before you update.

<Steps>

1. Update the B2C package:

   ```bash
   composer update adobe-commerce/storefront-compatibility
   ```

> 1. If you use B2B drop-ins, update SCP-B2B:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If you use B2B drop-ins, update the SCP-B2B package:
```

import Aside from '@components/Aside.astro';
import { Tabs, TabItem, Steps } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

The Storefront Compatibility Package contains changes to the Adobe Commerce codebase that enable drop-in component functionality. On <Link href={"https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/commerce/cloud-service/overview"} text={"Adobe Commerce as a Cloud Service"} /> and <Link href={"https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/commerce/optimizer/overview"} text={"Adobe Commerce Optimizer"} />, Adobe installs and updates the package automatically.

<Badge tooltip="Applies to Adobe Commerce on Cloud projects (Adobe-managed PaaS infrastructure) and on-premises projects only." text="PaaS only" variant="note" size="large" />

<Aside type="note">

>   You must have Adobe Commerce 2.4.8 or 2.4.9 installed. Adobe Commerce 2.4.7 is no longer supported for new installations. See [SCP for Adobe Commerce 2.4.7](/resources/v247/) for legacy reference. Magento Open Source is not supported. For supported versions and end-of-life dates, see <Link href="https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/commerce-operations/release/versions" text="Adobe Commerce Software Lifecycle Policy" />.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  You must have Adobe Commerce 2.4.8 or 2.4.9 installed. Adobe Commerce 2.4.7 is no longer supported for new installations. Magento Open Source is not supported. For supported versions and end-of-life dates, see <Link href="https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/commerce-operations/release/versions" text="Adobe Commerce Software Lifecycle Policy" />.
```

    1. Add the Storefront Compatibility module.

       Use the appropriate package version based on your Adobe Commerce version.

       **Recommended:** For Adobe Commerce 2.4.9, run: <Badge tooltip="Applies to Adobe Commerce 2.4.9 on Commerce PaaS or on-premises when you have an Adobe Commerce Optimizer license." text="PaaS + Commerce Optimizer only" variant="success" href="https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/commerce/user-guides/product-solutions" />

       ```bash
       composer require adobe-commerce/storefront-compatibility:4.9.0
       ```

       For a list of GraphQL changes and features in this version, see [SCP for Adobe Commerce 2.4.9](/setup/configuration/storefront-compatibility/v249/).

>        **Alternative:** For Adobe Commerce 2.4.8 (if you are not yet on 2.4.9 or do not have a Commerce Optimizer license), run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       **Alternative:** For Adobe Commerce 2.4.8, run: <Badge tooltip="Applies to Adobe Commerce 2.4.8 on Commerce PaaS or on-premises when you have an Adobe Commerce Optimizer license." text="PaaS + Commerce Optimizer only" variant="success" href="https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/commerce/user-guides/product-solutions" />
```

1. Use Composer to add the package module to your project:

   Use the appropriate package version based on your Adobe Commerce version.

   **Recommended:** For Adobe Commerce 2.4.9, run: <Badge tooltip="Applies to Adobe Commerce 2.4.9 on Commerce PaaS or on-premises when you have an Adobe Commerce Optimizer license." text="PaaS + Commerce Optimizer only" variant="success" href="https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/commerce/user-guides/product-solutions" />

   ```bash
   composer require adobe-commerce/storefront-compatibility:4.9.0
   ```

   For a list of GraphQL changes and features in this version, see [SCP for Adobe Commerce 2.4.9](/setup/configuration/storefront-compatibility/v249/).

>    **Alternative:** For Adobe Commerce 2.4.8 (if you are not yet on 2.4.9 or do not have a Commerce Optimizer license), run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   **Alternative:** For Adobe Commerce 2.4.8, run: <Badge tooltip="Applies to Adobe Commerce 2.4.8 on Commerce PaaS or on-premises when you have an Adobe Commerce Optimizer license." text="PaaS + Commerce Optimizer only" variant="success" href="https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/commerce/user-guides/product-solutions" />
```
